Update README (#269)
CodeforAustralia/council-emissions-calculator: README.md

  Council Emissions Calculator
</h1>
<p align="center">
  Civic Maker's Council's Carbon Emissions Calculator Project
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/CodeforAustralia/council-emissions-calculator/pulls"><img alt="Pull requests" src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/CodeforAustralia/council-emissions-calculator.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/CodeforAustralia/council-emissions-calculator/commits/staging"><img alt="Commit history" src="https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/CodeforAustralia/council-emissions-calculator.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/CodeforAustralia/council-emissions-calculator/graphs/contributors"><img alt="Contributors" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-9-blue.svg?style=flat-square"></a>
</p>

## Overview

|Category|Details|
|--------|-------|
| Purpose | Provide a source of information that facilitates the decision process for councils to become more sustainable |
| Custodian | Civic Makers |

> | Slack | \#civic-makers-climatechange |

Reviewer: a small suggestion: add link to slack channel

```suggestion
| Slack | [\#civic-makers-climatechange](https://codeforaustralia.slack.com/archives/C01CXCQPF8V) |
```

| Tech Stack | Next JS, Chakra UI, Google Sheets |
| Design | https://www.figma.com/file/Y42AKuHDW46LiLDaTOs6sM/Heroes-carbon-calculator-designs?node-id=978%3A54391&t=jSZfGy4RjwTVhtH4-1 |
| Staging Endpoint | http://council-emissions-calculator-spike-flax.vercel.app/ |
| Prod Endpoint | https://seechange.codeforaustralia.org/ |

## Table of Contents

- [Project Goals](#project-goals)
- [System Diagram](#system-diagram)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Development](#getting-started)
- [Resourses](#resourses)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)

## Project Goals

- Provide councils a tool to assess their impact on the environment.
- Provide councils with inspirations and next steps to have a more sustainable way of workingand engage communities in initiatives that are favorable for the environment.
- Provide a source of information that facilitates the decision process for councils to become more sustainable.

To learn more about this project, check out our [project planning](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1h5r1AfbQC8Azy_cdGHGBGOJwSxSqvt0cHKd5MmSd7qo/edit#heading=h.fw4lq2wclkt9) and [trello project board.](https://trello.com/b/iPHuVc0J/civic-makers-2023)

## System Diagram

> ![Council carbon emission calculator system diagram](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/88268603/232468816-142513de-c835-4dd3-923f-416635711103.png)

Reviewer: I **love** your systems diagram @OlaShabalina !!! 😍 

A couple of suggestions for improvement I offer for your thoughts:
* the survey results are stored and processed in *Google Sheets*, not *Google Pages* 😅 
* Did you create your diagram with DrawIO (or Excalidraw)? Are you able to put a copy of the DrawIO file *and* the PNG image file in the repo? I would love to have your diagrams version controlled as well! 🙇🏽

Author: Loaded the file and updated "Google Sheets" reference

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository to your local machine.

2. Install dependencies using your preferred package manager:

```
npm install
```

or

```
yarn install
```

3. Run the development server:

```
npm run dev
```

or

```
yarn dev
```

4. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser to view the carbon emission survey website locally.

## Development

We have 2 endpoints: [Staging](http://council-emissions-calculator-spike-flax.vercel.app/) and [Production](https://seechange.codeforaustralia.org/).

> 1. Create a new branch locally. _No need to fork the project, you can create a branch in the original one._
> 2. Once you make a code change, commit and publish your branch.
> 3. Raise a PR against our [Staging Endpoint](http://council-emissions-calculator-spike-flax.vercel.app/). 

Reviewer: > 1. Create a new branch locally. _No need to fork the project, you can create a branch in the original one._

This statement is true, but it only applies to people who are listed as members in this repo. New contributors, who are not yet members of the repo, **will need to fork** this repo and then contribute their changes via the fork.

How about this:

```suggestion
Please refer to [this doc](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) for instructions on how to fork this repo and contributing your changes.

**N.B:** Please note well that the *default branch* for this repo is the **staging** branch, not the *main* branch; Any new pull request raised for this repo will have its changes pushed to **staging** branch by default when the PR is approved and merged.

The **staging** branch is hosted on our [Staging endpoint](http://council-emissions-calculator-spike-flax.vercel.app/). 

The **main** branch is hosted on our [Production endpoint](https://seechange.codeforaustralia.org/).

```

  Council Emissions Calculator
</h1>
<p align="center">

>   Civic Maker's Council Emissions Calculator project

Reviewer 2: Great work Olga. Just a small additions .
Line 5
'Civic Maker's Council's Carbon Emissions Calculator Project'

Author: changed

Reviewer: I disagree with the grammar of this phrase:
> Civic Maker's Council's Carbon Emissions Calculator project

I think this looks more correct:
** Civic Maker's Council Carbon Emissions Calculator project **

Author: checked with chatGPT, both are correct @hqtan :joy: preference?

Author: Either way, changed to the one recommended by @hqtan if it's ok with you @Amutha37

Reviewer: Hi @OlaShabalina ,

This one has been left open for a while... 
Let's go with my preference for the wording ok?

Author: The problem is that @Amutha37  requested changes earlier and she would have to approve the PR for me to be able to unblock the merge.

| Tech Stack | Next JS, Chakra UI, Google Sheets |
| Design | https://www.figma.com/file/Y42AKuHDW46LiLDaTOs6sM/Heroes-carbon-calculator-designs?node-id=978%3A54391&t=jSZfGy4RjwTVhtH4-1 |
| Staging Endpoint | http://council-emissions-calculator-spike-flax.vercel.app/ |
| Prod Endpoint | https://seechange.codeforaustralia.org/ |

## Table of Contents

- [Project Goals](#project-goals)
- [System Diagram](#system-diagram)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Development](#getting-started)
- [Resourses](#resourses)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)

## Project Goals

- Provide councils a tool to assess their impact on the environment.
- Provide councils with inspirations and next steps to have a more sustainable way of workingand engage communities in initiatives that are favorable for the environment.
- Provide a source of information that facilitates the decision process for councils to become more sustainable.

To learn more about this project, check out our [project planning](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1h5r1AfbQC8Azy_cdGHGBGOJwSxSqvt0cHKd5MmSd7qo/edit#heading=h.fw4lq2wclkt9) and [trello project board.](https://trello.com/b/iPHuVc0J/civic-makers-2023)

## System Diagram

> ![Council emission calculator system diagram](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/88268603/232468816-142513de-c835-4dd3-923f-416635711103.png)

Reviewer 2: Awesome work ! The word carbon need to be added.
Council carbon emission calculator system diagram.

Author: Not critical, it's an alt text, but changed anyway

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository to your local machine.

> 2. Install dependencies using your preferred package manager:

Reviewer 2: We can use the word  `npm dependencies`  to differentiate with `data dependencies` below this lines of notes. 
So this will be : 
`Install npm dependencies using your preferred package manager:`

Reviewer 2: All go no need to change than.

```
npm install
```

or

```
yarn install
```

3. Run the development server:

```
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

> 4. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser to see the website locally.

Reviewer 2: Should we use the word 'website' or  `to view the carbon emission survey app'. Which related to what actually they will view as the go into locallhost:3000.

Author: Changed

## Development

We have 2 endpoints: [Staging](http://council-emissions-calculator-spike-flax.vercel.app/) and [Production](https://seechange.codeforaustralia.org/).

1. Create a new branch locally. _No need to fork the project, you can create a branch in the original one._
2. Once you make a code change, commit and publish your branch.
3. Raise a PR against our [Staging Endpoint](http://council-emissions-calculator-spike-flax.vercel.app/). 

## Resourses

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:
     
- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

> ## Dependencies

Reviewer 2: `# Data Dependencies`  will be more appropriate due to we have used the word before for `npm dependencies.`

Author: Don't agree, those are not data dependencies. No repetition here, those are different sections.

Reviewer 2: All good

Author: will need approval then, can't proceed without it :grin:
